A PHP Error was encountered 

 Severity: 8192 
 Message: Non-static method URL_tube::usage() should not be called statically, assuming $this from incompatible context 
 Filename: url_tube/pi.url_tube.php 
 Line Number: 13 

 
 
 
 
 KDD 2018 | Using Machine Learning to Assess the Risk of and Prevent Water Main Breaks 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Home 
 
 

 
 
 Program
 

 
 
 
 
 
 '
 
 Program Booklet (pdf) 
 
 
 
 Session Feedback 
 
 
 Keynote Speakers 
 
 
 Applied Data Science Invited Speakers 
 
 
 Conventional Tutorials 
 
 
 
 Hands-On Tutorials 
 
 
 Workshops 
 
 
 
 
 
 Project Showcase Track 
 
 
 
 Plenary Panel 
 
 
 Applied Data Science Invited Panel 
 
 
 Global AI Initiatives 
 
 
 
 Health Day at KDD 
 
 
 Deep Learning Day 
 
 
 By Application: Round Table Event 
 
 
 Networking With Experts 
 
 
 Accepted Papers 
 
 
 Poster Preparation Instructions 
 
 
 
 Job Match at KDD 2018 
 
 
 KDD2018 Agenda (pdf download) 
 
 
 Get Whova 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Attending
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Registration 
 
 
 Conference Venue 
 
 
 Travel Information 
 
 
 
 Accommodations & Special Rates 
 
 
 Visa Support Letters 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Calls 
 
 
 
 Sponsors 
 
 
 
 
 
 Organizers 
 
 
 
 Organizing Committee 
 

 
 
 ADS Track Program Committee 
 
 
 
 Research Track Program Committee 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 KDD Cup 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 Contact Us 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Accepted Papers 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 / 
 
 
 Accepted Papers 
 / 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Using Machine Learning to Assess the Risk of and Prevent Water Main Breaks Avishek Kumar (The University of Chicago); Syed Ali Asad Rizvi (University of Oxford); Benjamin Brooks (University of Chicago); Ali Vanderveld (ShopRunner); Kevin Hayes Wilson (The Lab @ DC); Chad Kenney (City of Denver, CO); Adria Finch (City of Syracuse, NY); Andrew Maxwell (City of Syracuse, NY); Sam Edelstein (City of Syracuse, NY); Joe Zuckerbraun (City of Syracuse, NY); Rayid Ghani (University of Chicago) 
 
 Water infrastructure in the United States is beginning to show its age, particularly through water main breaks. Main breaks cause major disruptions in everyday life for residents and businesses. Water main failures in Syracuse, N.Y. (as in most cities) are handled reactively rather than proactively. A barrier to proactive maintenance with limited resources is the city’s inability to properly prioritize the allocation of its resources. We built a Machine Learning system to assess the risk of a water mains breaking. Using historical data on which mains have failed, descriptors of pipes, and other data sources, we evaluated several models’ abilities to predict breaks three years into the future. Our results show that our system using gradient boosted decision trees performed best out of several algorithms and expert heuristics, achieving precision at 1% ([email protected]) of 0.62. Our model outperforms a random baseline (P@1 of 0.08) and expert heuristics such as water main age (P@1 of 0.10) and history of past main breaks (P@1 of 0.48). The model is currently deployed in the City of Syracuse. We are conducting a pilot by calculating the risk of failure for each city block over the period 2016-2018 using data up to the end of 2015 and, as of the end of 2017, there have been 42 breaks on our riskiest 52 mains. This has been a successful initiative for the city of Syracuse in improving its infrastructure and we believe this approach can be applied to other cities. 
 
 
 Download Full Paper
 
 
 Promotional Video 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 Sponsors 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 View All Sponsors Sponsor KDD 2018 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 2017 © All Rights Reserved 
 
 
 | 
 
 
 ACM Code of Conduct